# Distance-relay
Modelling and Testing of a Numerical Pilot Distance Relay for Compensated Transmission Lines
Flexible AC transmission system (FACTS) technologies are wildly used in the high voltage and extra-high voltage AC transmission systems to control the power flow. The existence of FACTS devices in the transmission lines makes a misoperation of the traditional distance relay. In this paper, a new special pilot distance protection scheme is presented for any compensated transmission line. This scheme is valid for any type of FACTS device (shunt, series, and compound) and different operation points (capacitive mode or inductive mode). The proposed scheme is modeled and tested in MATLAB 2020a/Simulink. The model includes a fault detection algorithm, phase selection, measured impedance, and five zones mho characteristic. The proposed scheme includes two additional reversed zones with the three traditional zones. The model is verified under deferent fault scenarios, including single-line to ground faults, double-line faults, double-line to ground faults, and three-phase faults. The results show the model robustness for different FACTS devices, including Static synchronous compensator (STATCOM), static synchronous series compensator (SSSC), and unified power flow controller (UPFC) as examples on the shunt, series, and compound FACTS devices respectively. All results show that the relay operates correctly under different FACTD device locations, different types of faults, different types of FACTS devices, and different operation points.
